---
layout: post
title:  "Research Log 3"
date:   2019-01-24 10:00:00
category: logs
author: Jason Loan
---

Each week you will document your work via a Research Log Entry. The goal of these entries is for you to capture the in-process moments of insight and learning, including the posing of questions. For each entry, I will offer some brief instructions via the course site as a starting point, and you are encouraged to extend your entries beyond these instructions as unanticipated things emerge in your work. These log entries will also serve as a resource for the self-evaluations that will be central to our assessment of your work in the course. Here's [an overview](https://jloan.github.io/e101v1/logs/2019/01/07/log-guide/) of what I expect from logs.

## Week 3

### First...

Last week read the introductions to two works on genre:

* Carolyn Miller's "Genre as Social Action", a scholarly article.
* A chapter on "Genres" from *The Bedford Book of Genres*, a pierce of textbook writing.

One take away from both these readings is that genre means more than just *a category or type of text*. Genre, as Carolyn Miller argues, is also a form of social action. Braziller and Kleinfeld summarize it like this:

>The concept of genre has existed since the ancient Greeks used it to classify literature, and following the Greeks, today the word is sometimes oversimplified to mean 'category' or 'type.' Scholar Carolyn Miller, however, gives a modern day definition of genre as a social response to a rhetorical situation. (17)

In you log this week...

* select a genre that you either compose with *and/or* consume regularly. For example, you might be an active user of Instagram or other social media. Or, you might consume (read or watch) a particular genre of media like comic books or horror movies. 
* Consider this: How is the genre you compose in or consume a form of social action? How, for example, is Instagram or horror movies *social responses to rhetorical situations* as Miller, Braziller and Kleinfeld have pointed out?
* Compose your answer in at least a paragraph (or two) and attempt to cite either Brallizer and Kleinfeld or Miller in your answer. Be sure to use quotation marks where appropriate and indicate the page number where you cittaion can be found.

### Next...

In our next project, we will be trying to reimagine  a blog post as an academic essay. 

In your log, sketch out an initial rubric for the genre of essays. Use the "single point rubric" template that we used to draft our rubrics for blogs.

Key question:

* What are the dimensions or qualities of essays as a genre?

As you consider this question and possible dimensions, check out stuff like this ["Overview of the Academic Essay"](https://writingcenter.fas.harvard.edu/pages/overview-academic-essay) from the Harvard Writing Center. Feel free to do some web seraching for other guides and overviews to essay writing. Pay attention to sources from academic instituions -- you might try to find one from a college or university that you hope to transfer to. Most college and university writing centers have these sorts of guides published online.

### Finally...

As I hope we're starting to learn -- *genre is more that just a category*.

So let's consider this:

* How are essays a form of social action? What rhetorical situation are essays a social response to? Are academic essays a different from of social action than other kinds of essays? How?
* Again, try to make your response to this questions at least a paragraph (maybe more).