---
layout: post
title:  "Research Log 1"
date:   2019-01-09 10:00:00
category: logs
author: Jason Loan
---

Each week you will document your work via a Research Log Entry. The goal of these entries is for you to capture the in-process moments of insight and learning, including the posing of questions. For each entry, I will offer some brief instructions via the course site as a starting point, and you are encouraged to extend your entries beyond these instructions as unanticipated things emerge in your work. These log entries will also serve as a resource for the self-evaluations that will be central to our assessment of your work in the course. Here's [an overview](https://jloan.github.io/e101v1/logs/2019/01/07/log-guide/) of what I expect from logs.

## Week 1

First, link to your newly created blog.

Consider:

* In this project, you are going to have many choices to make as a writer as to how your blog develops and ultimately reads. Having gotten your blog off the ground, describe as best you can, the choices you've made in your blog work so far. For example, have you selected a new template for your blog or just used the default? Why did you choose the template you're using?

* Also, there are choices you haven't been able to make regarding this project. For example, I've asked you to use Wordpress. How aware are you of the choices you aren't able to make in your blog work? Can you list these? How do they affect your approach to the project?

* What is your own definition or understanding of writing as we start the course? How might the genre of the blog fit into, or not, this definition?

Finally, a big question, something to set us up for next week. There's not necessarily a right or wrong answer to this. I'm just curious, as we start this "old school" blog project why you think it might be that we can even call blogs an "old school" digital writing genre?

* If all composing is situational -- what are the situations that have created and shaped blogging?

* In other words, what was the situation in the mid-to-late 90s that produced blogs, made them possible? What was the situation in the 2000s that made blogs so popular (there were millions created during this period)? Why, then, in the 2010s did blogs come to be seen as "dead"? What changed? What about our current situation, makes someone less likely to start a blog?
