---
layout: post
title:  "Research Log 2"
date:   2019-01-15 10:00:00
category: logs
author: Jason Loan
---

Each week you will document your work via a Research Log Entry. The goal of these entries is for you to capture the in-process moments of insight and learning, including the posing of questions. For each entry, I will offer some brief instructions via the course site as a starting point, and you are encouraged to extend your entries beyond these instructions as unanticipated things emerge in your work. These log entries will also serve as a resource for the self-evaluations that will be central to our assessment of your work in the course. Here's [an overview](https://jloan.github.io/e101v1/logs/2019/01/07/log-guide/) of what I expect from logs.

## Week 2

### First...

Use the Wordpress "Reader" feature to locate at least 3 different "personal blogs" that might be of interest to you. Spend some time with these blogs.

In your Research Log -- link to the blogs and make some notes as to the features and characteristics of these blogs. For example -- how are post organized for their reader? Do the blogs use "categories" or "tags" for posts?

In reference to these blogs -- answer the following:

* What are the "variations"/differences between these blogs? What does each blog have to have in common for it to be considered part of the genre blog?

### Next...

In class, we discussed the assigned reading this week using this guide:

>With your group, identify each of the things below about the assigned readings this week. Make some notes for yourself during this conversation and add this info to your reserach log.
>
* What's the title of the reading? Who's the author?
* Where and/or who published this text? When?
* What kind of text is this? In other words, what's the genre? (Ex: is it an academic article? a novel? a blog post?) How do you know?
* Is this a scholarly or popular reading? How do you know? (If you don't know yet what a scholarly or popular text is -- go ahead and look it up.)
* One way we evaluate texts is to consider if the reading is credible. How credible are each of our readings this week? How do we know?

Add your notes from this conversation here.

### Finally...

This quarter we'll be working on information competency. One element of this is being able to *synthesize your original ideas with those from appropriate sources*. This means that you are able to incorporating the ideas of others into your own thinking about a topic via quotation or paraphrase.

In your Week 1 Research Log, I asked you to offer an initial answer to this question:

> If all composing is situational – what are the situations that have created and shaped blogging?

This week, attempt to revise your answer by incorporating (sythesizing/quoting/paraphrasing) at least one idea from our assigned readings this week with your own original thinking in response to the prompt. If you already attempted to quote or cite an idea from the readings into your original answer -- cool! Try developing your answer further by synthesizing/incorporating an additional idea.
